# Learncube Virtual Classroom Client

### [Overview](README.md)
  * [Quickstart](README.md#quickstart)

### [Production Use](PRODUCTION.md)
  * [Routes](PRODUCTION.md#routes)
  * [Browser Support](PRODUCTION.md#browser)
  * [Authentication](PRODUCTION.md#authentication)
  * [Client Api Reference](PRODUCTION.md#api-reference)

### [Rest Api](RESTAPI.md)
  * [Classrooms](RESTAPI.md#classrooms)
  * [Participants](RESTAPI.md#participants)

	

### Production Use
Once you've got the Quickstart app up and running, it's time for a more in-depth look the requirements and options available for production use.

### Browser Support
The Virtual Classroom Client is a single page Javascript web application. It uses web-rtc for video and voice calls and websockets for real-time messaging. Browser support is below.

Edge | Firefox | Chrome | Opera | Safari | Safari iOS | Chrome Android | Firefox Android | Samsung 
-----|---------|--------|-----|---------|--------|-----|---------|--------|
\> 79 | > 64 | > 70 | > 56 | 12.1 | > 12.1 | > 70 | > 64 | > 11 | 

There have been many improvements in Web-RTC support in the latest releases of all the above browsers. For the best experience we recommend the most up-to-date version of a Chromium based browser.
<br/>
<br/>

### Routes
The Virtual Classroom uses hash routes to navigate you through the various views available. To avoid any conflicts, please ensure that the page where the client code is embedded does not use hash routes.

The available views are:

 - `#/onboarding/` - We perform basic tests and permission checks to ensure your browser is compataible and the required permissions have been granted
 - `#/teacher/` - The main route for a teacher in a live class
 - `#/teacher/ended/` - Video call and socket connections are closed and the user can submit feedback about the class
 - `#/student/arrived/` - The waiting room for a student before the class starts
 - `#/student/` - The main route for a student in a live class
 - `#/student/ended/` - Video call and socket connections are closed and the user can submit feedback about the class
 - `#/student/removed/` - Where the student arrives after being removed from the class by the teacher
 - `#/review/` - A read-only version of the classroom without video where students and teachers can review the content
 - `#/whiteboard/` - A whiteboard-only version of the classroom, designed for use with 3rd party video conferencing tools
 - `#/whiteboard/ended/` - The end class view for a whiteboard only class

<br/>
<br/>

### Authentication

The Learncube Virtual Classroom uses [JSON Web Tokens (JWT)](https://jwt.io/) to validate all api calls. JSON Web Tokens are encoded strings that consist of 3 parts, header, payload and signature, separated by dots. The JWT must be generated by you and added to each request in the "Authorization" header. The URL for this authentication endpoint must be included in the `userConfig` object that is passed to the constructor.

The ***Header*** typically consists of two parts: the type of the token, which is JWT, and the signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256
```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```
The ***Payload*** consists of user data corresponding to the Learncube API Users account (username, user_id, email) and a timestamp that is some time in the future. The `exp` property defines when this token will expire. We recommend a value between 5 and 15 minutes.

*** Important: This must match the user data we have stored for the Learncube account holder. ***
```json
{
  "username": "learncube_user",
  "user_id": 12345,
  "email": "learncube_user@yourdomain.com",
  "exp": 1626254079
}
```
The ***Signature*** is the consists of the header and payload, encrypted with your Learcube Private Key using the algorithm contained in the header.

The end result is three Base64-URL strings separated by dots. The HTTP response from your auth endpoint must have a 200 status code and return the token in a valid JSON object with `token` as the key.

```json
{"token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ImxlYXJuY3ViZV91c2VyIiwidXNlcl9pZCI6MTIzNDUsImVtYWlsIjoibGVhcm5jdWJlX3VzZXJAeW91cmRvbWFpbi5jb20iLCJleHAiOjE2MjYyNTQwNzl9.tnIG4tJcpZ0sT4THyvQTvOckUStKbwUOkAsKatYMti4"}
```


The Learncube Virtualclassroom Client will include this token in the authoraization header in each request to the Learncube API server. When the token expires, we will return a `401 Unauthorized` error response, immediately re-request a token from your auth endpoint and retry the request the unauthorised request. 
***Important: Never share your secret key with anyone or include it in publicly visible code.*** 

#### Examples
There are many good libraries available for creating JWT's. Some samples below.

[Node - jsonwebtoken](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken#readme)
```javascript
const jwt = require('jsonwebtoken')

const token = jwt.sign({
  "exp": Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000) + (60 * 60),
  "username": "learncube_user",
  "user_id": 12345,
  "email": "learncube_user@yourdomain.com"
  }, "your-secret-key", { algorithm: 'HS256' })

const header = "Bearer " + token
```

[Python - pyjwt](https://pyjwt.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
```python
import jwt, datetime
token = jwt.encode({
    "username": "learncube_user",
    "user_id": 12345,
    "email": "learncube_user@yourdomain.com"
    "exp": datetime.datetime.utcnow() + datetime.timedelta(minutes=5)
  }, 'your-secret-key', algorithm="HS256")

header = "Bearer " + token
```

<br/>
<br/>

### Events

<br/>
<br/>

### API Reference

#### Constructor
```javascript
const el = VirtualClassroomClient(el, userConfig, classConfig)
```

#### Parameters
Name | Type | Required | Description
-----|---------|-----|---------|
el | string | yes | The id attribute of the DOM element in which to embed the VirtualClassroom |
userConfig | object | yes | Contains user data to validate and connect to the class |
classConfig | object | no | Contains specific options about the class |

#### Returns
The constructor returns the DOM element passed in as the first parameter. Event listeners can be attached to this element to handle custom events dispatched from the Learncube Virtual Client.

<br/>
<br/>

#### User Config
```javascript
const userConfig = {
    'publicKey': {{PUBLICKEY}},
    'token': {{ROOMTOKEN}},
    'userid': {{PARTICIPANTID}},
    'username': {{PARTICIPANTNAME}},
    'avatar': {{PARTICIPANTTHUMBNAIL}},
    'userType': {{'teacher'|'student'}},
    'validateUrl': {{auth.your-server.com}},
}
```
Name | Type | Required | Description
-----|---------|-----|---------|
publicKey | string | no | The unique [public key](https://app.learncube.com/app/dashboard/#api) that is associated with your learncube account. This is how we identify you and what we use for authenticating API calls.|
token | string | yes | We use this to create the classroom record in the learncube database, so it must be unique. You can create the classroom using our REST API, or if the classroom doesn't exist when you access it here, it will be created. |
userid | string | yes | This is the id of the participant that is entering the classroom. Each user must have a unique id for the real-time messaging and video conferencing to work properly. |
username | string | no | This is the display name of the participant that is entering the classroom. Although this is not strictly required, it is highly recommended for the teacher to differentiate whiteboard annotations and chat messages |
avater | string | no | A url of a thumbnail that will be used to represent the user in various places of the Virtual Classroom  |
userType | string | no | Optional user type to overwite any settings for an already created class. Defaults to student if not provided |
validateUrl | url | yes | Url endpoint to do the validation on your server |

<br/>

#### Class Config
```javascript
const classConfig = {
  'lesson_materials.can_upload': true,
  'lesson_materials.enable_screenshare': true,
  'lesson_materials.enable_doc_cam': true,
  'settings.embedded_whiteboard': true,
  'settings.show_class_feedback': true,
  'whiteboard.enable_math_tools': true,
  'whiteboard.can_edit_all': true
}
```
Name | Type | Required | Description
-----|---------|-----|---------|
lesson_materials.can_upload | boolean | no | Gives the user permission to upload content to the whiteboard during the class. Default is true for Teacher and false for Students |
lesson_materials.enable_screenshare | boolean | no | Gives the user permission to share their screen to the whiteboard during the class. Default is true for Teacher and false for Students |
lesson_materials.enable_doc_cam | boolean | no | Gives the user permission to share an additional camera feed to the whiteboard during the class. Default is true for Teacher and false for Students |
settings.embedded_whiteboard | boolean | no | Overwrites the class type to render the class in whiteboard only mode. There is no video or chat components in this view |
settings.show_class_feedback | boolean | no | Shows the class feedback form at when the class is ended |
whiteboard.enable_math_tools | boolean | no | Enables maths tools to use on the whiteboard |
whiteboard.can_edit_all | boolean | no | Enables user to edit all annotations on the whiteboard. Default is true for all users |
